docs/tests/t004.md, before:

# T004 study management
**Abstract:**  
This documents contains the definitions for tests that concern study management: creating a new study, switching to another study and changing the properties of a study.

## T004-01: create a study
 
**description:**  
This test focuses on creating a new study, with only the basic, required properties.

**prerequisite:**  
To perform this test, a login as technical administrator or as business administrator is required.

**workflow:**  
1. login to LibreClinica as technical administrator or as business administrator
1. go to **Tasks - Administration - Studies**
1. click **Create a New Study** 

**testdata:**  
In the screen **Create a New Study** enter:

| item | to be entered |
| -- | ----- |
| Unique Protocol ID:	 | S_T004_01_a (or choose another last letter if this ID is already in use) |
| Brief Title: | Brief_Title_S_T004_01_a | 
| Official Title: | Offical_Title_S_T004_01_a |
| Secondary IDs: | Secondary_IDs_S_T004_01_a |
| Principal Investigator: | PI_S_T004_01_a |
| Protocol Type: | Interventional |
| Brief Summary: | Brief_Summary_S_T004_01_a |
| Detailed Description: | Detailed_Description_S_T004_01_a |
| Sponsor: | Sponsor_S_T004_01_a | 
| Collaborators: | Collaborators_S_T004_01_a | 
| Select User : | Your own account |	

**expected results:**  
A message will appear **The new Study has been created successfully.**  

## T004-02: change to a study
 
**description:**  
This test focuses on changing to another study or site.

**prerequisite:**  
The study for this test-case is in the sample database, named **S_T004_03**. To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for this study.

**workflow:**  
1. click on **Change Study/Site**
1. select the study **S_T004_03**
1. click **Confirm**

**testdata:**  
N.a.

**expected results:**  
You should see the message **Your current active study has been changed successfully.**.

## T004-03: edit a study

**description:**  
This test focuses on editing the properties of a study and not on events, crf's, rules and groups. 

**prerequisite:**  
To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for the study **S_T004_03** and it must be your current active study.

**workflow:**  
1. go to **Tasks - Study Setup - Build Study**
1. click on the line with **Create Study** the pencil / edit icon
1. click on **Conditions and Eligibility**, **Facility Information**, **Related Information**, **Study Parameter Configuration** top open all nodes
1. replace in all text-entries **XX** with **YY**
1. change all dates from **01-(Month)-1980** into **01-(Month)-1988**
1. change all numeric values from **11x** into **22x**
1. change the value of each single-select from the first option to the second option
1. in **Study Parameter Configuration** change each radio-group to the second option 

**testdata:**  
N.a.

**expected results:**  
The message **The study has been updated successfully.** should appear.

## T004-04: create a new study - disabled mail notification
**description:**
This test focuses on creating a new study, disabling mail notification (default value).

**prerequisite:**
To perform this test, a login as technical administrator or as business administrator is required.

**workflow:**  
1. Login to LibreClinica as technical administrator or as business administrator.
1. Go to **Tasks - Administration - Studies**.
1. Click **Create a New Study** and use the testdata below and click **Submit**.
1. Click **Change Study/Site** and switch to newly created study.
1. Click **Change Study** and **Confirm** afterwards.
1. Logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**testdata:**  
In the screen **Create a New Study** enter:

| item | to be entered |
| -- | ----- |
| Unique Protocol ID:	 | S_T004_04_a (or choose another last letter if this ID is already in use) |
| Brief Title: | Brief_Title_S_T004_04_a | 
| Official Title: | Offical_Title_S_T004_04_a |
| Secondary IDs: | Secondary_IDs_S_T004_04_a |
| Principal Investigator: | PI_S_T004_04_a |l
| Protocol Type: | Interventional |
| E-Mail Notification: | Disabled |
| Brief Summary: | Brief_Summary_S_T004_04_a |
| Detailed Description: | Detailed_Description_S_T004_04_a |
| Sponsor: | Sponsor_S_T004_04_a | 
| Collaborators: | Collaborators_S_T004_04_a | 
| Select User : | Your own account |	

**expected results:**  
1. A message will appear **The new Study has been created successfully.** Mail notifications should be disabled.
1. After re-login to the newly created study **no** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about successful login.

## T004-05: create a new study - enabled mail notification
**description:**
This test focuses on creating a new study, enabling mail notification.

**prerequisite:**
To perform this test, a login as technical administrator or as business administrator is required.

**workflow:**  
1. Login to LibreClinica as technical administrator or as business administrator
1. Go to **Tasks - Administration - Studies**
1. Click **Create a New Study** and use the testdata below and click **Submit**.
1. Click **Change Study/Site** and switch to newly created study.
1. Click **Change Study** and **Confirm** afterwards.
1. logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**testdata:**  
In the screen **Create a New Study** enter:

| item | to be entered |
| -- | ----- |
| Unique Protocol ID:	 | S_T004_05_a (or choose another last letter if this ID is already in use) |
| Brief Title: | Brief_Title_S_T004_05_a | 
| Official Title: | Offical_Title_S_T004_05_a |
| Secondary IDs: | Secondary_IDs_S_T004_05_a |
| Principal Investigator: | PI_S_T004_05_a |
| Protocol Type: | Interventional |
| E-Mail Notification: | Enabled |
| Brief Summary: | Brief_Summary_S_T004_05_a |
| Detailed Description: | Detailed_Description_S_T004_05_a |
| Sponsor: | Sponsor_S_T004_05_a | 
| Collaborators: | Collaborators_S_T004_05_a | 
| Select User : | Your own account |	

**expected results:**  
1. A message will appear **The new Study has been created successfully.**  Mail notifications should be enabled.
1. After re-login to the newly created study **one** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about successful login.

## T004-06: edit a study - enable mail notification
**description:**  
This test focuses on editing the properties (mail notification) of a study and not on events, crf's, rules and groups. 

**prerequisite:**  
1. To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for the study **S_T004_04_a** and it must be your current active study.
1. The study setting for automatic e-mail notification is **disabled**.

**workflow:**  
1. Go to **Tasks - Study Setup - Build Study**.
1. Click on the line 1 with **Create Study** the pencil / edit icon.
1. Change value of **E-Mail Notification** to **Enabled**.
1. Provide data for maybe missing mandatory fields like **Study Start Date:** or **Expected total enrollment**.
1. Click **Submit**.
1. logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**expected results:**  
1. The **Build Study page** is displayed.
1. After re-login to the edited study **one** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about successful login.

## T004-07: edit a study - disable mail notification
**description:**  
1. This test focuses on editing the properties (mail notification) of a study and not on events, crf's, rules and groups. 

**prerequisite:**  
1. To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for the study **S_T004_05_a** and it must be your current active study.
1. The study setting for automatic e-mail notification is **enabled**.

**workflow:**  
1. Go to **Tasks - Study Setup - Build Study**.
1. Click on the line 1 with **Create Study** the pencil / edit icon.
1. Change value of **E-Mail Notification** to **Disabled**.
1. Provide data for maybe missing mandatory fields like **Study Start Date:** or **Expected total enrollment**.
1. Click **Submit**.
1. Logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**expected results:**  
1. The **Build Study page** is displayed.
1. After re-login to the edited study **no** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about successful login.

Commit message:

LC-24
Adjustment of some test szenarios due to newly introduced study setting
for login e-mail notifications. Also removed no more needed freemarker
template.

docs/tests/t004.md, after:

# T004 study management

**Abstract:**  
This documents contains the definitions for tests that concern study management: creating a new study, switching to another study and changing the properties of a study.

## T004-01: create a study
 
**description:**  
This test focuses on creating a new study, with only the basic, required properties.

**prerequisite:**  
To perform this test, a login as technical administrator or as business administrator is required.

**workflow:**  
1. login to LibreClinica as technical administrator or as business administrator
1. go to **Tasks - Administration - Studies**
1. click **Create a New Study** 

**testdata:**  
In the screen **Create a New Study** enter:

| item | to be entered |
| -- | ----- |
| Unique Protocol ID:	 | S_T004_01_a (or choose another last letter if this ID is already in use) |
| Brief Title: | Brief_Title_S_T004_01_a | 
| Official Title: | Offical_Title_S_T004_01_a |
| Secondary IDs: | Secondary_IDs_S_T004_01_a |
| Principal Investigator: | PI_S_T004_01_a |
| Protocol Type: | Interventional |
| Brief Summary: | Brief_Summary_S_T004_01_a |
| Detailed Description: | Detailed_Description_S_T004_01_a |
| Sponsor: | Sponsor_S_T004_01_a | 
| Collaborators: | Collaborators_S_T004_01_a | 
| Select User : | Your own account |	

**expected results:**  
A message will appear **The new Study has been created successfully.**  

## T004-02: change to a study
 
**description:**  
This test focuses on changing to another study or site.

**prerequisite:**  
The study for this test-case is in the sample database, named **S_T004_03**. To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for this study.

**workflow:**  
1. click on **Change Study/Site**
1. select the study **S_T004_03**
1. click **Confirm**

**testdata:**  
N.a.

**expected results:**  
You should see the message **Your current active study has been changed successfully.**.

## T004-03: edit a study

**description:**  
This test focuses on editing the properties of a study and not on events, crf's, rules and groups. 

**prerequisite:**  
To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for the study **S_T004_03** and it must be your current active study.

**workflow:**  
1. go to **Tasks - Study Setup - Build Study**
1. click on the line with **Create Study** the pencil / edit icon
1. click on **Conditions and Eligibility**, **Facility Information**, **Related Information**, **Study Parameter Configuration** top open all nodes
1. replace in all text-entries **XX** with **YY**
1. change all dates from **01-(Month)-1980** into **01-(Month)-1988**
1. change all numeric values from **11x** into **22x**
1. change the value of each single-select from the first option to the second option
1. in **Study Parameter Configuration** change each radio-group to the second option 

**testdata:**  
N.a.

**expected results:**  
The message **The study has been updated successfully.** should appear.

## T004-04: create a new study - disabled mail notification
**description:**
This test focuses on creating a new study, disabling mail notification (default value).

**prerequisite:**
1. To perform this test, a login as *technical administrator* or as *business administrator* is required.
1. The system setting for *mailHost* within *datainfo.properties* has a valid value.

**workflow:**  
1. Login to LibreClinica as *technical administrator* or as *business administrator*.
1. Go to **Tasks - Administration - Studies**.
1. Click **Create a New Study** and use the testdata below and click **Submit**.
1. Click **Change Study/Site** and switch to newly created study.
1. Click **Change Study** and **Confirm** afterwards.
1. Logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**testdata:**  
In the screen **Create a New Study** enter:

| item | to be entered |
| -- | ----- |
| Unique Protocol ID:	 | S_T004_04_a (or choose another last letter if this ID is already in use) |
| Brief Title: | Brief_Title_S_T004_04_a | 
| Official Title: | Offical_Title_S_T004_04_a |
| Secondary IDs: | Secondary_IDs_S_T004_04_a |
| Principal Investigator: | PI_S_T004_04_a |l
| Protocol Type: | Interventional |
| E-Mail Notification: | Disabled |
| Brief Summary: | Brief_Summary_S_T004_04_a |
| Detailed Description: | Detailed_Description_S_T004_04_a |
| Sponsor: | Sponsor_S_T004_04_a | 
| Collaborators: | Collaborators_S_T004_04_a | 
| Select User : | Your own account |	

**expected results:**  
1. A message will appear **The new Study has been created successfully.**. Mail notifications should be disabled.
1. After re-login to the newly created study **no** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about *successful/unsucessful* login.

## T004-05: create a new study - enabled mail notification
**description:**
This test focuses on creating a new study, enabling mail notification.

**prerequisite:**
1. To perform this test, a login as *technical administrator* or as *business administrator* is required.
1. The system setting for *mailHost* within *datainfo.properties* has a valid value.

**workflow:**  
1. Login to LibreClinica as *technical administrator* or as *business administrator*.
1. Go to **Tasks - Administration - Studies**.
1. Click **Create a New Study** and use the testdata below and click **Submit**.
1. Click **Change Study/Site** and switch to newly created study.
1. Click **Change Study** and **Confirm** afterwards.
1. Logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**testdata:**  
In the screen **Create a New Study** enter:

| item | to be entered |
| -- | ----- |
| Unique Protocol ID:	 | S_T004_05_a (or choose another last letter if this ID is already in use) |
| Brief Title: | Brief_Title_S_T004_05_a | 
| Official Title: | Offical_Title_S_T004_05_a |
| Secondary IDs: | Secondary_IDs_S_T004_05_a |
| Principal Investigator: | PI_S_T004_05_a |
| Protocol Type: | Interventional |
| E-Mail Notification: | Enabled |
| E-Mail Notification Contact: | Your own e-mail address |
| Brief Summary: | Brief_Summary_S_T004_05_a |
| Detailed Description: | Detailed_Description_S_T004_05_a |
| Sponsor: | Sponsor_S_T004_05_a | 
| Collaborators: | Collaborators_S_T004_05_a | 
| Select User : | Your own account |	

**expected results:**
1. A message will appear **The new Study has been created successfully.**  Mail notifications should be enabled.
1. After re-login to the newly created study **one** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about *successful* login.
1. After invalid login to the newly created study **one** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about *unsuccessful* login.
	1. Note that a *valid* user name with invalid password has to be used as login attempt.	

## T004-06: edit a study - enable mail notification
**description:**  
This test focuses on editing the properties (mail notification) of a study and not on events, crf's, rules and groups. 

**prerequisite:**  
1. To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for the study **S_T004_04_a** and it must be your current active study.
1. The system setting for *mailHost* within *datainfo.properties* has a valid value.
1. The study setting for automatic e-mail notification is **disabled**.

**workflow:**  
1. Go to **Tasks - Study Setup - Build Study**.
1. Click on the line 1 with **Create Study** the pencil / edit icon.
1. Change value of **E-Mail Notification** to **Enabled**.
1. Apply valid e-mail address within field **E-Mail Notification Contact**.
1. Provide data for maybe missing mandatory fields like **Study Start Date:** or **Expected total enrollment**.
1. Click **Submit**.
1. logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**expected results:**  
1. The **Build Study page** is displayed.
1. After re-login to the edited study **one** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about *successful* login.
1. After invalid login to the edited study **one** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about *unsuccessful* login.
	1. Note that a *valid* user name with invalid password has to be used as login attempt.
	
## T004-07: edit a study - disable mail notification
**description:**  
1. This test focuses on editing the properties (mail notification) of a study and not on events, crf's, rules and groups. 

**prerequisite:**  
1. To perform this test you must have data-manager-rights for the study **S_T004_05_a** and it must be your current active study.
1. The study setting for automatic e-mail notification is **enabled**.
1. The study setting **E-Mail Notification Contact** has a valid value.
1. The system setting for *mailHost* within *datainfo.properties* has a valid value.

**workflow:**  
1. Go to **Tasks - Study Setup - Build Study**.
1. Click on the line 1 with **Create Study** the pencil / edit icon.
1. Change value of **E-Mail Notification** to **Disabled**.
1. Provide data for maybe missing mandatory fields like **Study Start Date:** or **Expected total enrollment**.
1. Click **Submit**.
1. Logout via **Log Out** and login again.

**expected results:**  
1. The field **E-Mail Notification Contact** is getting automatically cleared.
1. The **Build Study page** is displayed.
1. After re-login to the edited study **no** automatic e-mail is sent to the user to inform about *successful/unsucessful* login.
